bot : ab
supertopic : faq
themes :
    - theme :
        title : Coverage and delivery
        topics:
            - q : How do you know a message is successfully delivered?
              a : You can view the status of your messages under the Message Reports tab on your Developers’ Central dashboard.
            - q : What is the difference between a premium routing profile and a standard routing profile?
              a : |
                  All Clickatell customers are placed onto a routing profile, which determines the way messages are delivered to handsets once they leave the Clickatell SMS Gateway.
                  A premium routing profile offers the fastest and most direct line of delivery for your SMS messages. On this type of route, our system selects the most optimal route to ensure the fastest possible delivery time.
                  Premium routing is recommended for high-priority messages, such as one-time PINs (OTPs), transactional messages and time-critical alerts.
                  Choose a standard routing profile for cost-effective delivery that fits into your budget. Standard routing offers lower rates and reliable delivery.
                  Standard routing is ideal for non-critical messages that aren’t time-sensitive, such as promotions, brand announcements or CRM messages.
                  By default, all Clickatell customers are placed on a premium routing profile. To check which routing profile you’re on, log in to Developers’ Central and have a look at your account overview. If you’d like to change it, get in touch with our support team.
            - q : My SMS messages are not being delivered.
              a: |
                 There are many reasons for the non-delivery of SMS messages.
                 Start by checking the following:
                 Do we deliver to the country you’re trying to send to?
                 Are you following the country’s specific messaging regulations?
                 Have you signed up for the correct messaging account?
                 Are you receiving any of these message statuses?

                 If you’re still having trouble, please contact our support team for help resolving the issue.
            - q : Where can I find the networks you cover?
              a : Take a look at our Pricing and coverage page for the networks we cover.
            - q : Why are my messages delayed?
              a : |
                  Delayed delivery generally occurs when the handset does not have a connection to the network. Once a connection is re-established, the message will be delivered.
                  This infographic explains the process in more detail.
            - q : What networks does Clickatell support?
              a : See full network details per country.
            - q : Vietnam SMS messaging regulations and restrictions
              a : |
                  There are certain regulations in place regarding from addresses (Sender IDs) when sending SMS messages in Vietnam. The carrier Viettel requires pre-registration, and further regulations can be seen in the table below or online at the Vietnam Telecommunications Authority.

                  If you’d like to set up a Vietnam messaging program, our sales advisors can guide you through the process in a few simple steps. They have the experience and knowledge to deliver messages to Vietnam, and our support team is on hand 24/7 to help you out. Contact expertadvisors@clickatell.com.
            - q : How does the Clickatell SMS Gateway work?
              a : The Clickatell SMS Gateway enables you to reach your customers on their mobile phones anywhere in the world, in the most reliable and cost-effective way. Watch our video for a simple explanation of how the Clickatell SMS Gateway works.
            - q : I’m getting an error message when I submit messages. What does it mean?
              a : |
                  1. Error messages (for example, these HTTP error codes).

                     These are generated by the Clickatell gateway during a validation phase, before we accept the message. These error messages are sent back to your application, and there’s no charge if they are generated when sending a message.

                     Data regarding messages that do not pass initial validation will not be included in your reports.
                  2. Message statuses that are generated after the Clickatell gateway has accepted the message for delivery.

                     Data regarding messages passing initial validation and accepted for delivery will be included in your reports.
    - theme :
        title : Message replies
        topics :
            - q : Where can I see replies to my messages?
              a : |
                  Inbound messages can be viewed in Received Message Detail under Message Reports on your Developers’ Central dashboard.
                  You may also set up a callback address. This is the address of your server or website where details of your inbound messages are posted in real time. Find out how to set up your callback address here.
            - q : How do I get replies to my messages?
              a : |
                  You will require either a long code or short code number, depending on your target destination and the type of messaging you plan to do.

                  Use our product selector to find the right solution.
            - q : How do I set up auto replies to SMS messages?
              a : |
                  If you have a two-way number or short code linked to your Developers’ Central account, it’s possible to send automatic replies to SMS messages you receive.

                  To set it up, follow these steps:

                      Log in to Developers’ Central and click on Manage 2 Way SMS/short codes.
                      Choose the number you want to set up automatic replies for, and click EDIT.
                      Scroll down to the section called CUSTOM AUTO REPLY.
                      Type in your auto response, and click Save changes.

                  Note that the replies you configure will be static replies and not dynamic responses.
            - q : Do you have a 2 way messaging service?
              a : |
                  Yes, we offer a number of options for two way SMS communication. Use our product selector tool to see which of our two-way messaging products would best match your needs.

                  You can also read more about short codes, US short codes, Send 2 Way SMS and Americas 2 Way SMS.
            - q : Why is a two way number needed for an international account when sending to the US?
              a : As per US regulations, handset users need to be able to opt out of receiving messages, and for that, a two way number is required. You can apply for a long number here .
            - q : How do I apply for a short code?
              a : You can apply for a short code here. If you're new to Clickatell or don't yet have an account, read more about how to start using short code.
            - q : What is the difference between short codes and long numbers?
              a : |
                  A short code is a five or six-digit code that is country specific, while a long number contains 10 digits and can be used in different countries depending on coverage.
                  Watch this video to see the differences in more detail.
            - q : Long numbers are not available in my country. What can I use instead?
              a : |
                  If a longer number service isn’t available in your country, you have two options:

                      Use another country’s long number to send messages. However, you’ll pay more to receive replies from your users. See which countries offer long numbers.
                      Use a short code if it’s available in your country.

                  If long numbers aren’t available in your region, it’s best to get in touch with a sales advisor to work out the most cost-effective alternative.